- Highlighting taxonomy: (kindle or preview or highlights)
  collapsed:: true
	- Yellow: general
	- Red: disagree
	- Blue: contrasting view from mine, but more likely they are right
	- Orange: reference
- Started re-reading [[How to take smart notes📒]], beginning to take rough notes every chapter
- 17:27
	- [[Relevant Notes]] [[Innervation]]
		- ((63b385a8-850f-4f60-844
		- [[Permanent Notes]] [[As the mandibular nerve drops into the infratemporal fossa, it branches into various nerves that provide sensory and motor innervation to various structures]]
			- [[Reference Notes]]
			- [[Literature Notes]] Within the infratemporal fossa, branches of mandibular nerve delivers sensory and motor components to various structures.
			  collapsed:: true
				- The mandibular nerve has both sensory and motor components.
					- It provides sensory innervation to the mandibular (inferior) teeth and gingivae (gum), anterior two-thirds of the tongue, mucosa of the floor of the oral cavity, skin over temple and lower face (refer to a dermatome)
					- But as the motor root drops through the foramen ovale, medial to the trigeminal ganglion, it fuses with the mandibuar nerve, the mandibular nerve also provides motor innervation:
						- To the muscles of mastication (those that move the mandible)
						- Tensor tympani (muscle in the middle ear)
						- To one of the muscles that act on soft palate, the tensor veli palatini (the one that tenses the palatine aponeurosis for it to be acted on by other muscles)
					- Branches
						- Soon as the motor root and sensory root fuse as it drops through the foramen ovale, it gives rise to the meningeal nerve, and nerve to the medial pterygoid, as it then gives rise to the anterior and posterior divisions.
						- Trunk branches
							- Meningeal nerve (recurrent meningeal nerve)
								- Originates from the medial side of the mandibular nerve, and accompanies the middle meningeal artery and passes through the foramen spinosum into the cranial cavity.
								- Provides sensory supply to the dura mater, particularly the ones of the middle meningeal fossa
							- Nerve to medial pterygoid
								- Also arises from the medial side of the mandibular nerve, where it descends and provides motor innervation to the medial pterygoid from its deep surface.
								- It gives branches to the tensor veli paatini and branch to tensor tympani
						- Anterior division
							- The mandibular nerve eventually branch into the anterior trunk and the posterior trunk. The anterior trunk is mostly motor (except for the buccal nerve, which is mostly sensory).
							- Masseteric nerve
								- The masseteric nerve passses through the mandibular notch to supply the masseter.
							- Deep temporal nerves
								- Usually two in number, parallel in its course.
								- It ascends deep to the temporalis to supply it from its deep surface.
							- Nerve to lateral pterygoid
								- The nerve to lateral pterygoid passes deep to the lateral pterygoid, providing motor innervation to it from its deep surface.
							- Buccal nerve
								- The buccal nerve emerges between the upper and lower head of the lateral pterygoid (superficial to the lower head), and subsequently descends along the anterior margins of the ramus of the mandible.
								- The buccal nerve is mostly sensory, providing sensory innervation to the skin over the cheeks, the oral mucosa of the cheek, and even buccal gingivae of the lower molars.
						- Posterior division
							- The posterior trunk is mostly sensory (except for a branch to myohyoid, a branch of the inferior alveolar nerve).
							- Auricotemporal nerve
								- Originates as two roots that wrap around the middle meningeal artery, and fuses.
								- First pass between the tensor veli palatini and the upper head of lateral pterygoid, then between sphenomandibular ligament and neck of mandible, eventually hooking back up between the temporomandibular joint and the ear, deep to the parotid gland.
								- General sensory to the external ear, external auditory meatus, tympanic membrane, and temporomandibular joint.
								- Postganglionic parasympathetic nerve fibres from the glossopharyngeal nerve hitchike through the auriculotempral nerve to provide parasympathetic innervation to the parotid gland.
							- Lingual nerve
								- The lingual nerve courses anterior to the inferior alveolar nerve.
								- As part of the trigeminal nerve that provides somatosensation to the face, it supplies general sensation to the anterior 2/3 of the tongue, lingual gingivae, oral mucosa of the floor of the oral cavity.
							- Inferior alveolar nerve
								- The inferior alveolar nerve descends deep to the lateral pterygoid, between sphenomandibular ligament and neck of mandible and essentially passes descends through the mandibular canal.
								- Before it enters the mandibular canal, it gives rise to the nerve to myohyoid.
								- It gives incisive nerves and mental nerve.
			- [[Fleeting Notes]]
			  collapsed:: true
				- As the mandibular nerve branches from the trigeminal ganglion, it converges with the motor root of the trigeminal nerve.
				- This means that while V1 and V2, emerging from the trigeminal ganglion is fulling sensory, the mandibular nerve has sensory and motor components.
				-
- 18:05
  collapsed:: true
	- #[[Literature Notes]]
		- The maxillary artery is the largest branch of the external carotid artery, and provides a bulk of the blood supply to the nasal cavity, lateral walls and roof of the oral cavity, all teeth, the dura mater (especially that in the middle cranial fossa), and the contents within the infratemporal fossa.
		- Course
			- It originates within the substance of the parotid gland, as a terminal branch of the external carotid artery, passes through the infratemporal fossa, and through the pterygopalatine fossa where it gives terminal branches.