- [[How to Take Smart Notes (highlights)]]
  title:: How to take smart notes📒
- Overview
  collapsed:: true
	- **1: Everything you need to know**
		- Contrary to common belief, where most believe that knowledge work starts from a blank page, it actually starts way before that.
			- It starts with reading and note taking, and organisation of notes in a system that promotes thinking and generating insight.
			- With no prior knowledge, you lack the ideas required to generate a good quality paper.
		- The zettlekasten and smart notes is supposedly a simple system for tackling how we keep track of ideas before we start producing output (but many on the internet may have mistakened it to something far more comple)
		- Anatomy of the slip box
			- Two boxes, one for literature notes and one for his own notes
			- The notes, ideas fit into context
			- Index notes, serving as good entry points
				- The more links an index note contains, the better it serves as an index note
		- The zettlekasten as a dialogue partner
		- But a zettlekasten is just a tool, the mindset and workflow one applies to it also matters
	- **2:Everything you need to do**
		- The overarching workflow put simply:
			- Make fleeting notes, and process them
			- Make literature notes (don’t just copy)
				- On one side, put in bibliographic details, and on the other side brief notes of ideas extracted
			- Make permanent notes
				- Turn to your slip box daily, and try to enrich it with more permanent notes.
				- Permanent notes should be well written, write it like how you would write a manuscript.
				- Add to a specific position in a slip box, behind one or more related notes.
					- Analog systems only allow for placing them after one note, while digital solutions allow us to add a permanent note behind multiple notes.
					- When adding a permanent note, always consider all relvant notes.
					- Always add to an index as well, i.e. positioning behind another note, to ensure resurfability
				- When permanent notes cluster, turn it into a draft and eventually your output
	- **3: Everything you need to have**
	- **4: A few things to keep in mind**
	- The four underlying principles
		- **5: Writing is the only thing that matters**
			- Writing as a fundamental unit of knowledge work
			- However, while writing is important, this does not mean we spend all our time writing. We still have to read, attend lectures and seminars, think, as these gives ideas about research, or give rise to important questions.
		- **6: Simplicity is paramount**
		- **7: Nobody starts from scratch**
			- As mentioned in chapter 1, contrary to common beliefs, knowledge work, in all its forms should never start from scratch.
			- In order to ask a question or pick a topic for an assignment, one must already have some thoughts on the topic.
				- How could you ask a question even if you have absolutely no clue about the topic?
			- There is also something so fundamentally wrong regarding starting from scratch.
				- This is because when you start from scratch, i.e. you come up with a hypothesis, or a **declarative statement** or a thesis.
					- Without knowing anything regarding the topic, you would find readings that only argue for your statement.
						- This creates bias.
							- But by collecting permanent as you go, structure emerges, ideas cluster.
								- This will be your topic, and it will be a good one, as it is birthed through a storm of unbiased (and maybe even contraindicating) ideas
		- **8: Let the work carry you forward**
			- The workflow of communicating with the slip-box should be a virtuous circle, rather than being a draining task.
				- Flow is built into it.
				- Why?
					- The slip-box is a dialogue partner, which allows for many feedback.
					- This is because the slip-box establishes a positive feedback loop at many levels
						- Every time you write a permanent note, you test yourself of whether you understand this concept by writing in your own words.
						- And if you are able to do so, you’ve enhanced your understand of a topic, which is intrinsically rewarding and allows for a positive feedback.
						- And just like all positive feedback loop, it essentially amplifies the cue, that is writing permanent notes.
							- You get better at learning, which means it becomes easier and quicker to write permanent notes, which increases number of learning opportunities.
						- At another level, adding permanent notes into the slip-box also involves feedback.
							- As we add notes to system, the system will inadvertently show us contraindications, inconsistencies, redundancies.
							- This would further enrich our knowledge.
			- Workflow is important, mindset too. Working with the slip-box requires a growth mindset, rather than a static mindset, as mentioned by Dr. Carol Dweck.
				- It is best to have a growth mindset, where one has great capacities and is willing to receive feedback, good or bad.
	- The six steps to successful writing
		- **9: Separation and interlocking tasks**
			- The ultimate goal of a zettlekasten is output, writing.
			- Writing can be separated in various tasks, from researching, note-taking, outlining, drafting, writing of the actual manuscript, proofreading etc.
			- **9.2 Multitasking is not a good idea**
				- Studies has shown the multitasking unequivocally decreases productivity, in terms of quality and quantity of work done.
				- Yet, many who swears by multitasking claims to be good at it too.
					- This is largely due to the **mere-exposure effect**, which states that the mere participation of an activity will cause an individual to feel that they are good at said activity.
					- Multitasking may cause these people to *feel* they are more productive, but objectively, they are not.
				- It makes sense why multitasking doesn't work.
					- As attention (Psychic energy) is a limited resource, we cannot unlimitedly apply attention to various tasks at the same time.
					- What we are doing in multitasking is shifting attention between two or more things.
					- And as we make this context shift, it takes time for us to focus again.
			- **9.3 Give each task the right kind of attention**
				- In general, psychologists have discovered that there are different types of attention, and for simplicity sake, we should consider it spanning on a spectrum.
					- On on extreme, focused attention, where one focuses on the details of one concept.
					- On the other end, a floating kind of attention, for playful association of ideas.
				- The mark of a great knowledge worker is not the ability to be extremely focused on their work, but rather it is the flexible focus that distinguishes them.
					- This is because different phases (tasks) of writing requires different kinds of attention.
		- **10: Read for understanding**
			- **10.1 Read with a pen in hand**
				- As established, a large part of writing goes to researching, that is achieved only through reading and taking notes.
				- A key part of Luhmann's day is towards a reading workflow... He read with a pen and paper in hand.
					- As he encountered certain ideas, Luhmann would jot them down onto the notecards.
						- The structure of the card is as follow:
							- In his words, the concept on one side.
								- He didn't follow any reading techniques, because one cannot simply apply the same technique to a myriad of texts.
								- It isn't structured like SQ3R technique, nor is it just copying quotes or highlighting.
								- It is him writing in his own words, as a litmus test to see whether he actually understood the idea.
								- How extensive the notes are depends on the complexity of the subject (how much writing you need to do to understand the idea), could be paragraphs, but could be mere keywords.
									- Luhmann, a genius, often kept his notes to be as simple as possible.
							- The bibliographical details on the other.
						- These became the **literature notes**, which he may review and turn into permanent notes when required.
					- **10.2 Keep an open mind**
						- As mentioned before, we never start from a hypothesis, as this would let confirmation bias run wild.
						- Instead, we should read extensively, and focus on building a critical mass of notes.
							- In areas where ideas cluster, that is when you decide on the topics.
						- But obviously, we cannot read everything under the sun. Thankfully, another feature of the slip-box is that it enables us to be selective in reading and note-taking.
							- We only read text that enrich our slip box, it connects to existing notes, or opens up connections.
								- Now that's not to say that we only read on topics that **agree on existing dialogues within the slip-box**... **Contradicting ideas are just as valuable as supporting ideas**.
					- **10.3 Getting the gist**
						- Writing literature notes is about getting the gist of the text.
						- Getting the gist is a skill, the more we do it, the more virtuous we become.
		- **11: Take smart notes**
		  collapsed:: true
			- Permanent notes are the functional unit of knowledge work.
				- They are ideas extracted from literature notes, decontextualised in a way that they are fit in the context you are interested in.
			- **11.1 Think outside the brain**
				- The slip-box provides external scaffolding for our knowledge.
				- When working inside the slip-box, we think outside the brain. We see notes that are not even going to appear on top of our brain. This allows us to make wild connections that we simply couldn't do when thinking within the brain.
			- **11.3 Learn by not trying**
				- It also allows us to focus on the big picture, rather than focusing on the details.
					- When we work within the slip-box, placing the notecard in a certain area of the chain, and making links, we see the bigger picture...
						- Concepts coalesce into theories!
					-
		- **12: Developing ideas**
			- **12.2 Make smart connections**
				- In Luhmann's system, there are 4 types of links, but 2 of them are redundant with our modern technology.
					- 1. Links from an index
					  2. up and down links
					  3. index for a dialogue
					  4. Relevant notes, (bidirectional)
					- 2 and 3 are no longer required in our modern world.d
			- **12.3 Compare, correct and differentiate**
				- More often than not, as you gather permanent notes, it won't be long until the first time, you will find yourself adding notes that are similar to old notes.
					- These serves as opportunities to compare between the new and old.
					- An ongoing examination of old notes in a new light!
						- With added knowledge, we have chances to improve on the notes, enabling us to constantly improve ones own work.
			- **12.4 Assembling a toolbox for thinking**
				- The slip-box is also a good tool for learning because it employs these key features:
					- Understanding the broader implications
					- At different times
					- In different context
					- With deliberate effort