- [[How to Take Smart Notes (highlights)]]
  title:: How to take smart notes📒
- Overview
	- **1: Everything you need to know**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Contrary to common belief, where most believe that knowledge work starts from a blank page, it actually starts way before that.
			- It starts with reading and note taking, and organisation of notes in a system that promotes thinking and generating insight.
			- With no prior knowledge, you lack the ideas required to generate a good quality paper.
		- The zettlekasten and smart notes is supposedly a simple system for tackling how we keep track of ideas before we start producing output (but many on the internet may have mistakened it to something far more comple)
		- Anatomy of the slip box
			- Two boxes, one for literature notes and one for his own notes
			- The notes, ideas fit into context
			- Index notes, serving as good entry points
				- The more links an index note contains, the better it serves as an index note
		- The zettlekasten as a dialogue partner
		- But a zettlekasten is just a tool, the mindset and workflow one applies to it also matters
	- **2:Everything you need to do**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The overarching workflow put simply:
			- Make fleeting notes, and process them
			- Make literature notes (don’t just copy)
				- On one side, put in bibliographic details, and on the other side brief notes of ideas extracted
			- Make permanent notes
				- Turn to your slip box daily, and try to enrich it with more permanent notes.
				- Permanent notes should be well written, write it like how you would write a manuscript.
				- Add to a specific position in a slip box, behind one or more related notes.
					- Analog systems only allow for placing them after one note, while digital solutions allow us to add a permanent note behind multiple notes.
					- When adding a permanent note, always consider all relvant notes.
					- Always add to an index as well, i.e. positioning behind another note, to ensure resurfability
				- When permanent notes cluster, turn it into a draft and eventually your output
	- **3: Everything you need to have**
	- **4: A few things to keep in mind**
	- The four underlying principles
		- **5: Writing is the only thing that matters**
			- Writing as a fundamental unit of knowledge work
			- However, while writing is important, this does not mean we spend all our time writing. We still have to read, attend lectures and seminars, think, as these gives ideas about research, or give rise to important questions.
		- **6: Simplicity is paramount**