- [[How to Take Smart Notes (highlights)]]
  title:: How to take smart notes📒
- Overview
	- **1: Everything you need to know**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Contrary to common belief, where most believe that knowledge work starts from a blank page, it actually starts way before that.
			- It starts with reading and note taking, and organisation of notes in a system that promotes thinking and generating insight.
			- With no prior knowledge, you lack the ideas required to generate a good quality paper.
		- The zettlekasten and smart notes is supposedly a simple system for tackling how we keep track of ideas before we start producing output (but many on the internet may have mistakened it to something far more comple)
		- Anatomy of the slip box
			- Two boxes, one for literature notes and one for his own notes
			- The notes, ideas fit into context
			- Index notes, serving as good entry points
				- The more links an index note contains, the better it serves as an index note
		- The zettlekasten as a dialogue partner
		- But a zettlekasten is just a tool, the mindset and workflow one applies to it also matters
	- **2:Everything you need to do**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The overarching workflow put simply:
			- Make fleeting notes, and process them
			- Make literature notes (don’t just copy)
				- On one side, put in bibliographic details, and on the other side brief notes of ideas extracted
			- Make permanent notes
				- Turn to your slip box daily, and try to enrich it with more permanent notes.
				- Permanent notes should be well written, write it like how you would write a manuscript.
				- Add to a specific position in a slip box, behind one or more related notes.
					- Analog systems only allow for placing them after one note, while digital solutions allow us to add a permanent note behind multiple notes.
					- When adding a permanent note, always consider all relvant notes.
					- Always add to an index as well, i.e. positioning behind another note, to ensure resurfability
				- When permanent notes cluster, turn it into a draft and eventually your output
	- **3: Everything you need to have**
	- **4: A few things to keep in mind**
	- The four underlying principles
		- **5: Writing is the only thing that matters**
			- Writing as a fundamental unit of knowledge work
			- However, while writing is important, this does not mean we spend all our time writing. We still have to read, attend lectures and seminars, think, as these gives ideas about research, or give rise to important questions.
		- **6: Simplicity is paramount**
		- **7: Nobody starts from scratch**
			- As mentioned in chapter 1, contrary to common beliefs, knowledge work, in all its forms should never start from scratch.
			- In order to ask a question or pick a topic for an assignment, one must already have some thoughts on the topic.
			  collapsed:: true
				- How could you ask a question even if you have absolutely no clue about the topic?
			- There is also something so fundamentally wrong regarding starting from scratch.
			  collapsed:: true
				- This is because when you start from scratch, i.e. you come up with a hypothesis, or a **declarative statement** or a thesis.
				  collapsed:: true
					- Without knowing anything regarding the topic, you would find readings that only argue for your statement.
					  collapsed:: true
						- This creates bias.
						  collapsed:: true
							- But by collecting permanent as you go, structure emerges, ideas cluster.
							  collapsed:: true
								- This will be your topic, and it will be a good one, as it is birthed through a storm of unbiased (and maybe even contraindicating) ideas
		- **8: Let the work carry you forward**
			- The workflow of communicating with the slip-box should be a virtuous circle, rather than being a draining task.
				- Flow is built into it.
				- Why?
					- The slip-box is a dialogue partner, which allows for many feedback.
					- This is because the slip-box establishes a positive feedback loop at many levels
					  collapsed:: true
						- Every time you write a permanent note, you test yourself of whether you understand this concept by writing in your own words.
						- And if you are able to do so, you’ve enhanced your understand of a topic, which is intrinsically rewarding and allows for a positive feedback.
						- And just like all positive feedback loop, it essentially amplifies the cue, that is writing permanent notes.
						  collapsed:: true
							- You get better at learning, which means it becomes easier and quicker to write permanent notes, which increases number of learning opportunities.
						- At another level, adding permanent notes into the slip-box also involves feedback.
						  collapsed:: true
							- As we add notes to system, the system will inadvertently show us contraindications, inconsistencies, redundancies.
							- This would further enrich our knowledge.
			- Workflow is important, mindset too. Working with the slip-box requires a growth mindset, rather than a static mindset, as mentioned by Dr. Carol Dweck.
				- It is best to have a growth mindset, where one has great capacities and is willing to receive feedback, good or bad.
	- The six steps to successful writing