- [[How to Take Smart Notes (highlights)]]
  title:: How to take smart notes📒
- Overview
	- **1: Everything you need to know**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Contrary to common belief, where most believe that knowledge work starts from a blank page, it actually starts way before that.
			- It starts with reading and note taking, and organisation of notes in a system that promotes thinking and generating insight.
			- With no prior knowledge, you lack the ideas required to generate a good quality paper.
		- The zettlekasten and smart notes is supposedly a simple system for tackling how we keep track of ideas before we start producing output (but many on the internet may have mistakened it to something far more comple)
		- Anatomy of the slip box
			- Two boxes, one for literature notes and one for his own notes
			- The notes, ideas fit into context
			- Index notes, serving as good entry points
				- The more links an index note contains, the better it serves as an index note
		- The zettlekasten as a dialogue partner
		- But a zettlekasten is just a tool, the mindset and workflow one applies to it also matters
	- **2:Everything you need to do**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The overarching workflow put simply:
			- Make fleeting notes, and process them
			- Make literature notes (don’t just copy)
				- On one side, put in bibliographic details, and on the other side brief notes of ideas extracted
			- Make permanent notes
				- Turn to your slip box daily, and try to enrich it with more permanent notes.
				- Permanent notes should be well written, write it like how you would write a manuscript.
				- Add to a specific position in a slip box, behind one or more related notes.
					- Analog systems only allow for placing them after one note, while digital solutions allow us to add a permanent note behind multiple notes.
					- When adding a permanent note, always consider all relvant notes.
					- Always add to an index as well, i.e. positioning behind another note, to ensure resurfability
				- When permanent notes cluster, turn it into a draft and eventually your output
	- **3: Everything you need to have**
	- **4: A few things to keep in mind**
	- The four underlying principles
	  collapsed:: true
		- **5: Writing is the only thing that matters**
			- Writing as a fundamental unit of knowledge work
			- However, while writing is important, this does not mean we spend all our time writing. We still have to read, attend lectures and seminars, think, as these gives ideas about research, or give rise to important questions.
		- **6: Simplicity is paramount**
		- **7: Nobody starts from scratch**
			- As mentioned in chapter 1, contrary to common beliefs, knowledge work, in all its forms should never start from scratch.
			- In order to ask a question or pick a topic for an assignment, one must already have some thoughts on the topic.
			  collapsed:: true
				- How could you ask a question even if you have absolutely no clue about the topic?
			- There is also something so fundamentally wrong regarding starting from scratch.
			  collapsed:: true
				- This is because when you start from scratch, i.e. you come up with a hypothesis, or a **declarative statement** or a thesis.
				  collapsed:: true
					- Without knowing anything regarding the topic, you would find readings that only argue for your statement.
					  collapsed:: true
						- This creates bias.
						  collapsed:: true
							- But by collecting permanent as you go, structure emerges, ideas cluster.
							  collapsed:: true
								- This will be your topic, and it will be a good one, as it is birthed through a storm of unbiased (and maybe even contraindicating) ideas
		- **8: Let the work carry you forward**
			- The workflow of communicating with the slip-box should be a virtuous circle, rather than being a draining task.
				- Flow is built into it.
				- Why?
					- The slip-box is a dialogue partner, which allows for many feedback.
					- This is because the slip-box establishes a positive feedback loop at many levels
					  collapsed:: true
						- Every time you write a permanent note, you test yourself of whether you understand this concept by writing in your own words.
						- And if you are able to do so, you’ve enhanced your understand of a topic, which is intrinsically rewarding and allows for a positive feedback.
						- And just like all positive feedback loop, it essentially amplifies the cue, that is writing permanent notes.
						  collapsed:: true
							- You get better at learning, which means it becomes easier and quicker to write permanent notes, which increases number of learning opportunities.
						- At another level, adding permanent notes into the slip-box also involves feedback.
						  collapsed:: true
							- As we add notes to system, the system will inadvertently show us contraindications, inconsistencies, redundancies.
							- This would further enrich our knowledge.
			- Workflow is important, mindset too. Working with the slip-box requires a growth mindset, rather than a static mindset, as mentioned by Dr. Carol Dweck.
				- It is best to have a growth mindset, where one has great capacities and is willing to receive feedback, good or bad.
	- The six steps to successful writing
		- **9: Separate and Interlocking Tasks**
			- One can consider writing to be a series of tasks, reading (researching), note-taking, outlining, drafting, proofreading etc. A system must be established for complete separation of these tasks.
			- **9.2 Multitasking is not a good idea**
				- Research has shown that multitasking reduces productivity, in a sense that it unequivocally reduces the quantity and quality of work.
				- Yet, based on the word of mouth, people who swear by multitasking claims that they are good at it.
					- This is largely under the influence of the mere-exposure effect, which states that the mere doing of certain activities can make a person *think* they are good at those activities.
					- A reason why multitasking doesn’t work is because each task essentially requires *different kinds of attention*. This sort of context shifting removes us from the right kind of attention. We then require time to focus up again.
				- **9.3 Give each task the right kind of attention**
					- The core concept here, is that there are various kinds of attention, which, for simplicity reasons, spans across a spectrum, focused attention on one end, and floating kinds of attention.
						- Focused attention is often for reading, proof-reading.
						- Floating kind of attention is often used for outlining, writing and reviewing permanent notes, i.e. a playful association of ideas.
					- It should be noted that one kind of attention is not superior to the other. Different kinds of attention is required for different tasks.
					- The mark of an exceptional knowledge worker is not a relentless focus, but a flexible focus that enables then to alternate between paying focused attention to a single concept, to the floating, playful association of ideas.
					- The slip-box creates the perfect external condition to provide us flexibility.
				- **10: Read for understanding**
					- Read for understanding, read for learning.
					- **10.1 Read with a pen in hand**
					  collapsed:: true
						- What Luhmann did when reading, was keeping a pen in paper.
							- When ever he encounters an idea that could potentially enrich his slip-box, he wrote, on one side his interpretation of the idea, using his words.
								- But he does not impose much structure on his literature notes.
									- This part of the workflow is only for him to grasp the idea of the test. This could be just a couple of keywords, or could be paragraphs.
										- Luhmann was a genius, so he basically could grasp the idea with very little words, couple of keywords even.
									- It’s not as systematic as the SQ3R technique or what not, but it is not just mere underlining or copying of text. It is about writing to understand.
								- After he collected his literature notes, he sift through them and think how they may be relevant for already written notes: writing with an eye towards possible connections in the slip box.
							- And on the other side, were the bibliographical details.
							- This portion of his system, is essentially the modern day reference system softwares, zotero, endnote etc.
					- **10.2 Keep an Open mind**
					  collapsed:: true
						- As mentioned earlier, we never come up with a hypothesis before we build up to a critical mass of notes.
							- As this linear work flow prompts us to find literature that agrees with our preconceived notion, but rarely those that contradicts our hypothesis.
							- A linear workflow lets confirmation bias run wild.
						- Hence, we should read with an open mind, and postpone our decision on the topic and just focus on building a critical mass of notes.
						- But surely, we can’t read everything under the sun.
							- **The slip-box actually guides us to be selective our reading.**
								- Does something add to the slip-box, does it help make connections?
					- **10.3 Get the gist**
						- Grasping test from literature, or put it simply, getting the gist, is a skill, and the more often we do it, the more virtuous we become.