- 10:00 {{renderer :wordcount_zopxcdxe}}
  collapsed:: true
	- #[[Permanent notes]] [[Infratemporal fossa]]
		- #[[Reference Notes]] [Grays: Temporal and infratemporal fossae](https://www-clinicalkey-com.eproxy.lib.hku.hk/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323393041000087?scrollTo=%23hl0008047)
		- #[[Literature Notes]] The bony framework is formed by the sphenoid, temporal, maxilla and ramus of the mandible
			- The bony framework of the mandibular fossa consists of: Sphenoid bone, temporal bone, maxilla and mandible
			- Temporal bone
				- The squamous part forms much of the medial bony framework of the infratemporal fossa
				- Viewed inferiorly, a petrotypanic fissure can be found between the petrous part and the tympanic part of the temporal bone
					- The chordae tympani drops trough the medial end of this fissure
			- Sphenoid bone
				- The lateral pterygoid plate and greater wing of the sphenoid bone partakes in forming part of the bony framework of the infra temporal fossa, particularly the roof and medial wall
				- The inferior surface of the sphenoid bone is characterised by two foramina that enables communication between the infratemporal fossa and the middle cranial fossa.
					- The foremen ovale for the passage of the mandibular nerve
					- The foremen spinosum for the passage of the middle meningeal artery
				- The maxilla gives rise to the anterior wall of the infratemporal fossa
					- Consist of a foramen for passage of posterosuperior alveolar nerve and vessels
					- Superiorly forms margins of superior orbital fissure
				- The ramus of the mandible forms the lateral wall
					- On its medial side, it is characterised by the mandibular foramen, the superior opening to the mandibular canal, for the passage of inferior orbital nerve and vessels
		- #[[Fleeting Notes]] [[Infratemporal fossa]] The infratemporal fossa is a very narrow space between the larynx and the ramus of the mandible, yet consists of many key structures (Boundaries of the infratemporal fossa)
			- The temporal and infratemporal fossa are 2 continuous spaces that can be found on the lateral side of the head.
			- Temporal fossa
			  collapsed:: true
				- A narrow fan-shaped space above the infratemporal fossa, separated from the infratemporal fossa by the space behind the zygomatic notch
			- Infratemporal fossa
			  collapsed:: true
				- The infratemporal fossa is a wedge-shaped space below the temporal fossa.
				- Boundaries of infratemporal fossa
				  collapsed:: true
					- Roof:
					  collapsed:: true
						- Infratemporal surface of greater wing of sphenoid bone, and the temporal bone
						- Houses communications with the middle cranial fossa: Foramen ovale (V3), foramen spinosum (middle meningeal artery), petrotympanic fissure
						- Opens to the temporal fossa lateral to the infratemporal crest
					- Anteriorly bounded by the posterior surface of maxilla, with the maxillary tuberosity
					  collapsed:: true
						- It contains the alveolar foramina, for the passage of the superior posterior alveolar nerve and vessels, that enter the maxillary sinus and bone
						- Upper part opens as the inferior orbital fissure
						  collapsed:: true
							- For passage of infraorbital nerve and vessels, zygomatic branch of maxillary nerve and opthalmic vein
					- Medial wall
					  collapsed:: true
						- Bounded by the lateral pterygoid plate anteriorly, the tensor and levator veli palatini (muscles of the soft palate), and the lateral wall of the pharynx
						- Contains the pterygomaxillary fissure, that contains the pterygopalatine fossa and the pterygopalatine ganglion.
					- Lateral wall
					  collapsed:: true
						- The medial surface of the mandibular ramus
						  collapsed:: true
							- Contains the mandibular foramen that is continuous with the mandibular canal
					- Posterior wall
					  collapsed:: true
						- Styloid apparatus
					- Lies between the lateral wall of pharynx  (superior pharyngeal constrictor) and ramus of mandible
				- The space lies deep to the masseter muscle (muscle of mastication) and the underlying ramus of the mandible.
			- Relationships with the muscles of mastication
			  collapsed:: true
				- There are 4 muscles of mastication, many of which are closely related to the temporal and infratemporal regions
				- The temporalis lies within the temporal fossa
				- The masseter (strongest muscle of mastication) lies outside the infratemporal fossa, essentially forming the lateral wall of the infratemporal fossa
				- The medial and lateral pterygoid muscle lies within the infratemporal fossa.
- **10:55** [[quick capture]]: Temporal and infratemporal fossae
  collapsed:: true
	- The temporal and infratemporal fossae are interconnected spaces on the lateral side of the head ( Fig. 8.135 ). Their boundaries are formed by bone and soft tissues.
	  
	  Open full size image
	  Fig. 8.135
	  Temporal and infratemporal fossae.
	  The temporal fossa is superior to the infratemporal fossa, above the zygomatic arch, and communicates with the infratemporal fossa below through the gap between the zygomatic arch and the more medial surface of the skull.
	  
	  The infratemporal fossa is a wedge-shaped space deep to the masseter muscle and the underlying ramus of the mandible. Structures that travel between the cranial cavity, neck, pterygopalatine fossa, floor of the oral cavity, floor of the orbit, temporal fossa, and superficial regions of the head pass through it.
	  
	  Of the four muscles of mastication (masseter, temporalis, medial pterygoid, and lateral pterygoid) that move the lower jaw at the temporomandibular joint, one (masseter) is lateral to the infratemporal fossa, two (medial and lateral pterygoid) are in the infratemporal fossa, and one fills the temporal fossa.
	  
	  Bony framework
	  
	  Bones that contribute significantly to the boundaries of the temporal and infratemporal fossae include the temporal, zygomatic, and sphenoid bones, and the maxilla and mandible ( Figs. 8.136 and 8.137 ).
	  
	  Open full size image
	  Fig. 8.136
	  Bony features related to the temporal and infratemporal fossae.
	  Open full size image
	  Fig. 8.137
	  Mandible. A. Lateral view of left side. B. Medial view of left side.
	  Parts of the frontal and parietal bones are also involved.
	  
	  Temporal bone
	  
	  The squamous part of the temporal bone forms part of the bony framework of the temporal and infratemporal fossae.
	  
	  The tympanic part of the temporal bone forms the posteromedial corner of the roof of the infratemporal fossa, and also articulates with the head of the mandible to form the temporomandibular joint.
	  
	  The lateral surface of the squamous part of the temporal bone is marked by two surface features on the medial wall of the temporal fossa:
	  
	  ▪ a transversely oriented supramastoid crest , which extends posteriorly from the base of the zygomatic process and marks the posteroinferior border of the temporal fossa; and
	  ▪ a vertically oriented groove for the middle temporal artery , a branch of the superficial temporal artery.
	  Two features that participate in forming the temporomandibular joint on the inferior aspect of the root of the zygomatic process are the articular tubercle and the mandibular fossa. Both are elongate from medial to lateral. Posterior to the mandibular fossa is the external acoustic meatus. The tympanic part of the temporal bone is a flat concave plate of bone that curves inferiorly from the back of the mandibular fossa and forms part of the wall of the external auditory meatus.
	  
	  When viewed from inferiorly, there is a distinct tympanosquamous fissure between the tympanic and squamous parts of the temporal bone. Medially, a small slip of bone from the petrous part of the temporal bone insinuates itself into the fissure and forms a petrotympanic fissure between it and the tympanic part ( Fig. 8.136 ).
	  
	  The chorda tympani nerve exits the skull and enters the infratemporal fossa through the medial end of the petrotympanic fissure.
	  
	  Sphenoid bone
	  
	  The parts of the sphenoid bone that form part of the bony framework of the infratemporal fossa are the lateral plate of the pterygoid process and the greater wing ( Fig. 8.136 ). The greater wing also forms part of the medial wall of the temporal fossa.
	  
	  The greater wings extend one on each side from the body of the sphenoid. They project laterally from the body and curve superiorly. The inferior and lateral surfaces form the roof of the infratemporal fossa and the medial wall of the temporal fossa, respectively.
	  
	  The sharply angled boundary between the lateral and inferior surfaces of the greater wing is the infratemporal crest ( Fig. 8.136 ). Two apertures (the foramen ovale and the foramen spinosum) pass through the base of the greater wing and allow the mandibular nerve [V 3 ] and the middle meningeal artery, respectively, to pass between the middle cranial fossa and infratemporal fossa. In addition, one or more small sphenoidal emissary foramina penetrate the base of the greater wing anteromedial to the foramen ovale and allow emissary veins to pass between the pterygoid plexus of veins in the infratemporal fossa and the cavernous sinus in the middle cranial fossa.
	  
	  Projecting vertically downward from the greater wing immediately medial to the foramen spinosum is the irregularly shaped spine of the sphenoid , which is the attachment site for the cranial end of the sphenomandibular ligament.
	  
	  The lateral plate of the pterygoid process is a vertically oriented sheet of bone that projects posterolaterally from the pterygoid process ( Fig. 8.136 ). Its lateral and medial surfaces provide attachment for the lateral and medial pterygoid muscles, respectively.
	  
	  Maxilla
	  
	  The posterior surface of the maxilla contributes to the anterior wall of the infratemporal fossa ( Fig. 8.136 ). This surface is marked by a foramen for the posterosuperior alveolar nerve and vessels. The superior margin forms the inferior border of the inferior orbital fissure.
	  
	  Zygomatic bone
	  
	  The zygomatic bone is a quadrangular-shaped bone that forms the palpable bony prominence of the cheek:
	  
	  ▪ A maxillary process extends anteromedially to articulate with the zygomatic process of the maxilla.
	  ▪ A frontal process extends superiorly to articulate with the zygomatic process of the frontal bone.
	  ▪ A temporal process extends posteriorly to articulate with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone to complete the zygomatic arch.
	  A small zygomaticofacial foramen on the lateral surface of the zygomatic bone transmits the zygomaticofacial nerve and vessels onto the cheek.
	  
	  A thin plate of bone extends posteromedially from the frontal process and contributes to the lateral wall of the orbit on one side and the anterior wall of the temporal fossa on the other. A zygomaticotemporal foramen on the temporal fossa surface of the plate where it attaches to the frontal process is for the zygomaticotemporal nerve.
	  
	  Ramus of mandible
	  
	  The ramus of the mandible is quadrangular in shape and has medial and lateral surfaces and condylar and coronoid processes ( Fig. 8.137 ).
	  
	  The lateral surface of the ramus of the mandible is generally smooth except for the presence of a few obliquely oriented ridges. Most of the lateral surface provides attachment for the masseter muscle.
	  
	  The posterior and inferior borders of the ramus intersect to form the angle of the mandible , while the superior border is notched to form the mandibular notch . The anterior border is sharp and is continuous below with the oblique line on the body of the mandible.
	  
	  The coronoid process extends superiorly from the junction of the anterior and superior borders of the ramus. It is a flat, triangular process that provides attachment for the temporalis muscle.
	  
	  The condylar process extends superiorly from the posterior and superior borders of the ramus. It consists of:
	  
	  ▪ the head of the mandible , which is expanded medially and participates in forming the temporomandibular joint; and
	  ▪ the neck of the mandible , which bears a shallow depression (the pterygoid fovea ) on its anterior surface for attachment of the lateral pterygoid muscle.
	  The medial surface of the ramus of the mandible is the lateral wall of the infratemporal fossa ( Fig. 8.137B ). Its most distinctive feature is the mandibular foramen , which is the superior opening of the mandibular canal. The inferior alveolar nerve and vessels pass through this foramen.
	  
	  Immediately anterosuperior to the mandibular foramen is a triangular elevation (the lingula ) for attachment of the mandibular end of the sphenomandibular ligament.
	  
	  An elongate groove (the mylohyoid groove ) extends anteroinferiorly from the mandibular foramen. The nerve to the mylohyoid is in this groove.
	  
	  Posteroinferior to the mylohyoid groove and mandibular foramen, the medial surface of the ramus of the mandible is roughened for attachment of the medial pterygoid muscle.
- 11:00 {{renderer :wordcount_wjlcmahlpto}}
	- #[[Fleeting Notes]] The infratemporal fossa is highly connected to other spaces in the head and neck
	  collapsed:: true
		- The infratemporal fossa is a highly connected region, kind of like a bus terminal
			- Via the superior orbital fissure, connected with the orbit
			- Via the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, connected with the middle cranial fossa (part of cranial cavity)
			- Via the pterygomaxiary fissure, access the pterygopalatine fossa
			- And can access the superior mediastinum
- 16:57 {{renderer :wordcount_kqqgazt}}
  collapsed:: true
	- #[[Literature Notes]] Temporomandibular joint
	  collapsed:: true
		- The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is the articulation between the condylar process of the mandible and the mandibular fossa (glenoid fossa) and articular tubercle of the temporal bone.
		- While by definition, a synovial joint, the articular surfaces are lined with fibrocartilage rather than the hyaline cartilage.
		- In addition, the joint is separated by the articular disc into the upper part and the lower part:
			- The lower part allows for hinge movement (elevation and depression).
			- The upper part allows protrusion and retraction of the head of the mandible, where the head of the mandible moves forward towards the articular tubercle, and backwards into the mandibular fossa.
		- Extrinsic ligaments help stabilise the joint capsule:
			- The sphenomandibular ligament - lies medial to the TMJ, runs from the spine of the sphenoid bone at the base of the skull to the lingula on the medial side of the ramus of the mandible
			- The stylomandibular ligament - passes from the styloid process of the temporal bone to the posterior margin and angle of mandible
			- The lateral ligament - lies closest to the joint, lateral to the joint capsule. It runs from the articular tubercle to the neck of the mandible.
		- Movements
			- It is a very complex joint, that enables various movement. Some consider it a modified hinge joint, some consider it a condylar joint, while some go as far as calling it a ball and socket joint.
			- It essentially enables:
				- Hinge movements: Elevation and depression (lower part)
				- Protraction
				- Retraction
				- Side to side movement
			- Movement at the TMJ is produced by the muscles of mastication.
			- Opening of the mouth widely requires depression and retraction of the TMJ.
	- #[[Fleeting Notes]] Temporomandibular joint
	  collapsed:: true
		- The temporomandibular joint is the articulation between the head of the mandible (condylar process), and mandibular fossa of the temporal bone.
		- Unlike other synovial joint, where articular surfaces are lined hyaline cartilage, it is lined with fibrocartilage, as to resist stress to the articular surfaces during constant joint movement.
		- **Joint type and movement**
			- A synovial joint, is said to be a modified hinge joint, condylar joint. Some go as far as calling it a ball and socket joint.
			- It enables complex movements:
				- **Elevation and depression**, or hinge like movements (enabled by the lower part of the joint space)
				- **Protrusion** and **Retraction**, i.e. movement of the joint towards the articular tubercle and back into the mandibular fossa.
				- **Side to side movement**.
			- Movement is offered by muscles of mastication.
- 17:35 {{renderer :wordcount_xdajape}}
	- #[[Literature Notes]] 4 muscles of mastications enables movement at the temporomandibular joint.
	  collapsed:: true
		- The 4 masseter muscles
		  collapsed:: true
			- Masseter
			  collapsed:: true
				- Quadrangular in shape. Power muscle of mastication, that elevates the mandible.
				- Originates from the zygomatic arch and the maxillary process of the zygomatic bone, and inserts onto the lateral surface of the mandibular ramus.
				- Actions:
				  collapsed:: true
					- Powerful elevation of the mandible biting down
			- Medial pterygoid
			  collapsed:: true
				- Quadrangular muscle. The medial muscle within the infratemporal fossa.
				- Originates from two heads:
				  collapsed:: true
					- The deep head originates from the lateral pterygoid plate
					- The superficial head originates from the maxillary tuperosity, and the pyramidal process of the palatine bone
				- Inserts onto the medial surface of the mandible, near the angle
				- Movements:
				  collapsed:: true
					- They elevate, protrude, and move the jaw medially.
			- Lateral pterygoid
			  collapsed:: true
				- Triangular muscle. Lies laterally within the infratemporal cavity.
				- Originates from the 2 heads:
				  collapsed:: true
					- Upper head originates from the roof of the infratemporal fossa, from the greater wing of sphenoid bone and infratemporal crest.
					- Lower head originates from the lateral pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, lying in between the two heads of the medial pterygoid.
				- Inserts into the neck of the mandible and the joint capsule of the TMJ
				- Movements:
				  collapsed:: true
					- Responsible for protrusion (main protruder), and moving jaw medially.
			- Temporalis
			  collapsed:: true
				- The temporalis is a large fan-shaped muscle that fills in the temporal fossa.
				- Originates from the temporal fossa
				- Anterior fibres descend vertically, while posterior fibres pass posteriorly.
				- Fibres converge into a tendon that passes deep to the zygomatic arch, and inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible.
				- Movements:
				  collapsed:: true
					- Major elevator (anterior fibres)
					- Also retracts
					- Some degree of side-to-side movement
		- Other muscles
		  collapsed:: true
			- Geniohyoid muscle
			- digastric muscle
			- Mylohyoid muscle
	- #[[Fleeting Notes]]
- Want to start diving into some good reads today. Should start with Sapiens. Also wanted to buy some ryan holiday books to understand stoicism