- 09:44
	- [[Relevant Notes]]
		- [[Permanent Notes]]
			- [[Reference Notes]]
			- [[Literature Notes]]
				- The permanent notes with a zettlekasten are based off of atomic ideas.
				- But interplay between ideas, primarily through placing behind another card (physically), and secondarily linking to relevant notes so distant from the system, allows the note to be placed in different context.
			- [[Fleeting Notes]]
				- Reading Andy’s note on how evergreen note should be atomic, such that it enables dense linking.
				- I did this in MBBS II semester 1. And not to my surprise, it helped deepen my understanding.
					- I was able to correspond joint structure, to biochemical changes in joint pathologies, and it resulted in the formation of a note I was really proud of: the clinical approach to joint pain.
						- This is really the first time where a bottom up approach worked for me.
							- This drastically helped with performance in PBL tutorials:
								- I demonstrated that understanding the biochemical basis of parhogenesis of OA, corresponds to the progression of its function pathoanatomy viewed on arthroscopy, and it’s manifestations on the radiological signs and physical presentation.
								- All these concepts came from different lectures… I shouldn’t be able to associate them together, unless I physically broke these lectures apart, and synthesised new understanding.
				- However, there was a problem with my approach. Everytime I added a new note, while I was often able to secondarily link to other notes, I often forgot to put the note behind another note on the index.
					- I didn’t have a defined jumping point. I could only see clusters of notes emerging.
					- Structure is present, because not visible because I didn’t put the notes into an index.
						- Which is the big idea? Which is not?
				- This made it difficult for structure to emerge.
					- For half a year where I focused on the power of atomic ideas, I neglected on the power of structure.
					- The zettlekasten’s focus on ‘one concept one note’ does not intend for the notes to sit in a contextless vacuum, rather it is the decontextualisation of ideas that enables it to exist within different contexts.
						- Context matters. Structure matters.
						- The idea of breaking literature into ideas is not for them to exist freely, but is to use them as building blocks to build structure. Concepts coelasce into theories!