---
title: Personal statement
---

- Personal statement

- To be given the chance to apply data science to medicine would be a dream come true for me. Since secondary school, I have developed an interest in data science and machine learning, but ever since medical school, adjusting to this new lifestyle has rendered me little time to further cultivate my skills. With enrichment year approaching, I would like to take this opportunity to bring the two fields together, and explore new worlds to come.

- As the concept of Artificial Intelligence and its applications grew, sooner or later, I would be exposed to such concept. Around secondary school, I've developed an interest in artificial intelligence, particularly with a focus on machine learning. Around form 4 to form 5, I set aside time from my studies to learn programming from various online courses. I initially learnt Python, as an primer to the world of programming. While it was fun to tinker through problems in a logical manner using Python, I was not satisfied. Something tells me that merely the use of Python is insufficient to solve bigger problems. This was around the time I've heard of the concept of Big Data. I turned to a course on Udemy called "Complete Machine Learning & Data Science Bootcamp", where I learned how to approach problems from the point of view of the data scientist, tinker with data with libraries such as NumPy and Pandas, train, test and appraise models with libraries such as Scikitlearn and TensorFlow. I was infatuated. The thought that the application of clean data into what seems to be a "black box", with a touch of technicality, could yield a prediction model that can be applied to the real world to predict the future. Potential applications, as I realise then, is endless.

- During the various courses, I was given sample data to tinker with machine learning models. However, I've always wished that one day, I could apply my knowledge, and help work on models that can be applied in the real world setting.

- But where would I want to apply data science? As a medical student, I would obviously want to apply it to healthcare. During dinner conversations with my dad (who also bases his work around machine learning, albiet in another field), that I wish to apply data science to medicine in the new age of precision medicine. I just didn't know, I have the chance to explore this field as early as in Enrichment year.
