- 16:31
	- [[Relevant Notes]] [[Layers]]
		- ((63b385a8-850f-4f60-8449-61e8d5805acf))
		- ((63b8de63-151f-4088-a132-cec88594585a))
		- [[Permanent Notes]] [[Despite their different fibre orientation, the 4 muscles of mastication are arranged in layers]]
			- [[Reference Notes]]
			- [[Literature Notes]]
			- [[Fleeting Notes]] With good imagination, the 4 muscles of mastication stack on top of one another, from a superficial to deep manner.
				- One thing I noticed from anatomy practical VII, is that one can consider the muscles of mastication is by and large, arranged in layers.
					- Most superficially, the masseter originates from the zygomatic arch, and the maxillary process of the zygomatic bone, and inserts on the entire lateral surface of the ramus of the mandible.
						- In a sense, the masseter lies superficial to the plane of the ramus of the mandible.
					- On the other hand, the temporalis muscle converge onto the coronoid process of the mandible.
						- To put it simply, it lies on the plane of the ramus of the mandible, outside the infratemporal fossa, contributing to the lateral wall of the infratemporal fossa.
					- The two muscles, lateral and medial pterygoid are stacked on top of one another.
				- In a sense, they are stacked on top of one another.
- 16:41
	- [[Relevant Notes]] [[Initial step]]
		- ((63b385a8-850f-4f60-8449-61e8d5805acf))
		- [[Mandible]]
		- [[Permanent Notes]] [[The ramus of the mandible, forming the lateral wall of the infratemporal fossa must be cut to reveal its actual contents]]
			- [[Reference Notes]]
			- [[Literature Notes]]
			- [[Fleeting Notes]] The ramus of the mandible is to be cut as to reveal contents of the infratemporal fossa.
				- During HNNS anatomy pratical VII, upon making a vertical cut at the zygomatic arch and reflecting the masseter inferoposteriorly, we had revealed a large part of the ramus of the mandible.
				- Since the temporomandibular joint is technically a content of the infratemporal fossa, I've always considered the ramus of the mandible to be very small.
					- What trails the above thought, is that the structures of the infratemporal fossa can be found posterior and anterior to the ramus.
					- But that is not the case.
					- All structures essentially lie deep to the ramus of the mandible.
						- This makes sense, because it is the lateral wall of the region, so it should enclose much of the region.
				- In fact, it is so large that upon reflecting the masseter, all we can see is the ramus of the mandible. We must somehow remove the ramus of the mandible to reveal its actual contents.
					- In the dissection guide, what follows is making several cuts at the ramus to reveal its actually contents.
- 16:49
	- [[Relevant Notes]]
		- [[Permanent Notes]]
			- [[Reference Notes]]
			- [[Literature Notes]]
			- [[Fleeting Notes]]
				- The maxillary artery is the most superficial structure within the infratemporal fossa.
-