---
title: Extrapyramidal tracts in the brainstem provides a background that modulates activity of pyramidal tract
---

- --
- dg-publish: true
- alias:
- --
- metadata:
	- tags: [[HNNS]], [[Nervous system physiology]]
	- status: #[[Fleeting Notes]]
- Extrapyramidal tracts in the brainstem provides a background that modulates activity of pyramidal tract
- Rubrospinal tract
- Rubrospinal tract originate from the magnocellular portion (inferior portion) of [[Midbrain#Red nucleus|red nucleus of the Midbrain]] and immediately decussate and descend along the lateral funiculus of the spinal cord.
- They eventually synapse with lower motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord, and command **flexor muscles**.
- Tectospinal tract
- Tectospinal tract originates from the superior colliculus of the [[Midbrain]], and cross to the contralateral cervical segments.
- It regulates reflex movements in response to visual stimuli (e.g. head movements when a vehicle speeds immediately infront of us)
- Reticulospinal tract
- Reticulospinal tract originate from the [[Reticular formation]] of the brainstem.
- The medial reticulospinal tract originates from the pontine reticular formation, and stimulates extensor muscles.
- The lateral reticulospinal tract originates from the medullary reticular formation and inhibits extensor muscles.
- Lateral Vestibulospinal tract
- The lateral vestibulospinal tract originate from the vestibular nuclei, and commands **trunk muscles**, regulating posture and balance.
- Overall functions of extrapyramidal tract
- Extrapyramidal tract *provides a background of motor functions in terms of muscle tone, balance between flexion and extension*, etc. and enables modulation by the [[Pyramidal system|Pyramidal tract]].
- They are key for balance, posture, and axial and proximal muscle control.