---
title: Personal statement
publish: false
---

- # Personal statement
	- ==Chance== To be given the chance to apply data science to medicine would be a dream come true for me. Since secondary school, I have developed an interest in data science and machine learning, but ever since medical school, adjusting to this new lifestyle has rendered me little time to further cultivate my skills. With enrichment year approaching, I would like to take this opportunity to bring the two fields together, and explore new worlds to come.
	  collapsed:: true
		- ==LSHTM version== To be given the chance to apply data science to medicine would be a dream come true for me. Since secondary school, I have developed an interest in data science and machine learning. As I stepped into medical school, lectures on precision medicine revealed the world of possibilities of the application of data science to healthcare. In this personal statement, my goal is to explain why I would like to study MSc in Health Data Science, and how it may align me with my future of working as a healthcare professional.
	- ==Origin: DS & ML== As the concept of Artificial Intelligence and its applications grew, sooner or later, I would be exposed to such concept. Around secondary school, I've developed an interest in artificial intelligence, particularly with a focus on machine learning. Around form 4 to form 5, I set aside time from my studies to learn programming from various online courses. I initially learnt Python, as an primer to the world of programming. While it was fun to tinker through problems in a logical manner using Python, I was not satisfied. Something tells me that merely the use of Python is insufficient to solve bigger problems. This was around the time I've heard of the concept of Big Data. I turned to a course on Udemy called "Complete Machine Learning & Data Science Bootcamp", where I learned how to approach problems from the point of view of the data scientist, tinker with data with libraries such as NumPy and Pandas, train, test and appraise models with libraries such as Scikitlearn and TensorFlow. I was infatuated. The thought that the application of clean data into what seems to be a "black box", with a touch of technicality, could yield a prediction model that can be applied to the real world to predict the future. Potential applications, as I realise then, is endless.
	- During the various courses, I was given sample data to tinker with machine learning models. However, I've always wished that one day, I could apply my knowledge, and help work on models that can be applied in the real world setting.
	- ==Why here== But where would I want to apply data science? As a medical student, I would obviously want to apply it to healthcare. During dinner conversations with my dad (who also bases his work around machine learning, albiet in another field), that I wish to apply data science to medicine in the new age of precision medicine. I just didn't know, I have the chance to explore this field as early as in Enrichment year.
	  collapsed:: true
		- ==LSHTM version== I have always be fascinated in data science, but what is its potential in health and medicine. At the dawn of precision medicine, the field that has once thought to be based on expert opinions, is now based on empirical evidence, much of which is data-driven. As the idea of big data arrived into healthcare, it is necessary to learn how to approach and analyse a large throughput of data with the use of machine learning skills, and the mindset of a data scientist, in order to improve health, prevent diseases, and improve quality of life of individuals. This is why I wish to study under your world-leading institution, to equip myself with the skills and mindset that is in line with the future of bio-informatics in medicine. I wish that one day my work could improve the quantity and quality of evidence in medicine, as well as generate insight from patient management to the overall performance of a health system.